Draft of the fulltext for the segment for product people (#520)
InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourceLearningPath: product/02-innersource-and-agile.md

# InnerSource and Agile

You want to improve your product and deliver those improvements faster to customers.
You want to make stakeholders happy.
InnerSource helps your team deliver value and maintain autonomy especially in a highly interconnected world.

## Autonomous teams in an interconnected world

Organisations try to deliver value to customers quickly.
One common cause for delays are dependencies in the delivery process.
As a result many organisations have moved to cross functional teams where communication with customers, design, implementation, testing and deployment/ operations are all in one team thus eliminating the need for costly handovers.
However in order to achieve high performance teams try to also eliminate waste and re-use existing components.

> From a team perspective each re-used component however adds another link, another dependency outside of the control of that team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From a team perspective each re-used component adds another dependency outside of the control of that team.
```
Simplify

> Often the result are lengthy roadmap discussions to get everyone on the same page and globally optimise prioritization so that changes that are needed in central components can be implemented in an orderly fashion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often the results are lengthy roadmap discussions to get everyone on the same page on how to optimize priorities globally.
This allows changes that are needed in central components to be implemented in an orderly fashion.
```
Split into multiple sentences.

> What's more often there are so many requests coming from teams that one central component team runs out of capacity to implement all of the requested changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often there are so many requests coming from teams that one central component team runs out of capacity to implement all of the requested changes.
```

Simplify lead-in.

While in traditional organizations there are only two ways of making changes to dependencies:
* Submit a feature request/ bug report and wait for the other team to prioritize that change and implement it.
* Build a workaround to avoid the bug or locally provide the functionality needed.

> If none of those options is successful typically the issue is being escalated and decided at a higher hierarchical level-

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If none of those options is successful typically the issue is being escalated and decided at a higher hierarchical level-
```
Extra newline prevents this sentence from being included in the preceding bullet.

In an InnerSource setting it does take training to remember to bring all relevant decisions back to shared communication channels that both, host team and contributors can follow.
From a product perspective that does bring a lot more transparency to the development process.
It also means that decisions that otherwise may have been taken at the engineering level only are now visible for everyone involved.

Remember last time you insisted that your product be well tested, preferably with automated tests so deployments can happen frequently and without human intervention?
This goal now helps with InnerSource as well: Contributions are much easier if contributors can check locally if their changes are safe.
Tests also ensure that the host team remembers to keep the contributed functionality if they are reminded of the reason for it by a failing test.

Remember last time you insisted on your team spending time to follow the goal of "leave code in a better shape than you found it"?
That mindset will also help you when moving to an InnerSource model: It makes sure that quality and co-hesion of code remains high even when there are multiple contributions from different sources.

> ## Common misunderstandings when coming from agile teams

Reviewer 2: ### Additional common misunderstandings

* "My engineers will now work on whatever projects they like, so I cannot benefit from their work any more / plan with their capacity"
* "I do not need to take great care in protecting my infrastructure credentials used in my projects as we are all a big InnerSource family"
* "I do not have to adopt my conversation tone and can trust that anybody who has access to my project will always keep company secrets"

Author: Those are really valuable to have. Thank you for sharing those!

Issues in InnerSource become much more lengthy and wordy than in your average organisation.

Code Reviews: In traditional organisations code reviews often serve auditing purposes and for quality control.
They are done when development is finished.
In InnerSource code changes are shared very early in the process, sometimes when nothing more than a rough sketch is done.
The goal is to seek early feedback and mentoring.
This is particularly helpful for teams that are on diverse schedules and cannot find any time for pair programming.
Often teams have the aspiration that nobody walks alone - in reality though this often isn't much more than an aspiration never achieved.
In particular where contributions cross team boundaries.

Focus on written communication: The goal with InnerSource is for the project to be transparent enough so that developers who are not part of the team can understand project decisions and follow alogthe process of software creation.
As a result all communication needs to be in a place that everyone interested in the conversation can follow along: written, public, searchable and linkable.

> The goal is not to reduce disturbing others - the goal is to make all project conversations transparent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The goal is not to reduce distractions to others - the goal is to make all project conversations transparent.
```

The goal is to find a common shared room for everyone involved with the project where they can have discussions focused on that InnerSource project.

Focus on written communication does not mean verbal communication is disallowed.
There still needs to be time for a shared cup of coffee.
Also solving problems together, pairing with others or in person hackathons are valuable to find solutions quickly.
The team needs to make sure though that all project relevant decisions are kept in channels that everyone has access to.
That also may mean to post-pone important project decisions until everyone is back from vacation or waiting for another day or two if those working in another country are now on holiday.
This is not only relevant for coding decisions, but also relates to general project mission, roadmap and direction.
Without that information contributors will have a hard time understanding which contributions will have a good chance of getting accepted.

### Impact of trust

All discussions in InnerSource projects are visible to everyone in the company.

> Blaming people for their errors, ridiculing them for their mistakes, talking behind their backs about what they did wrong is a sure fire way to kill that trust and leads to the failure of that InnerSource project.

Author: Good idea - thank you!
